## Commercial Construction
Concentration of commercial building permits

### Why is this important?
New and renovated commercial space is an indicator of where business investment and growth is occurring in the community. Increased commercial activity can impact neighborhoods in both positive and negative ways. The upfit and maintenance of existing buildings and the addition of new commercial structures expands the capacity of businesses to serve surrounding neighborhoods and increases employment opportunities. However, commercial construction activity may also lead to tensions due to concerns over traffic, parking, and the displacement of traditional businesses as neighborhoods change over time. 

#### How are we doing?
Commercial construction slowed during the economic recession as did residential construction. It has since recovered. In fiscal year 2021, there were 4,476 commercial building permits in Mecklenburg County, a slight increase from 4,276 in fiscal year 2016. 

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm42'">Commercial Building Age</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm41'">Commercial Space</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm19'">Commercial Construction</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm75'">Job Density</a>  

### About the Data
The number of permitted new and renovated Commercial Buildings divided by total land area, multiplied by 100. 

Permits include New Nonresidential Buildings (U.S. Department of Commerce Codes 213,318-320, and 322-328) and Nonresidential Additions, Renovations and Conversions (Code 437). Demolition permits and permits issued for parking garages and parks/outdoor stadiums are not included. Additions, Renovations and Conversions include additional space as well as changes based on building code, safety measures or improvements to heating/cooling, plumbing and electrical systems.

_**Source**: Mecklenburg County Code Enforcement

### Additional Resources
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Charlotte Explorer](https://explore.charlottenc.gov/)| Learn about Charlotte, its operations and its changing landscape.
|[Land Development](http://charlottenc.gov/ld/CLDSM/Pages/default.aspx)| The City's source of information to assist residents,
|[Building Permits](https://www.mecknc.gov/LUESA/CodeEnforcement/Permitting/Pages/default.aspx)| Apply for a building permit.
|[Business Financial Programs](http://charlottenc.gov/ED/Development/Pages/default.aspx)|Programs offered by the City of Charlotte including Facade Improvement and Security Grants, Business Equity Loans, the Business Investment Program, and the Business District Organization Program. 