## Age of Residents
Median Age of Residents 

### Why is this important?
The median age - where half the population is older and half the population is younger - reflects demographic trends and may provide an indication of needed resources and services. On the neighborhood scale, median age can be rapidly affected by births, deaths and migration. A falling median age may signal the influx of younger people or the growth of families. A rising median age may signal the departure of younger people to other areas or the aging in place of the population. Understanding demographic trends helps in planning for housing, health care services, schools and out-of-school time programs, and employment services. 

#### How are we doing?
The median age in Mecklenburg County is 35.1, compared to 38.7 in North Carolina and 38.1 in the United States. While the nation as a whole is rapidly getting older, the median age in Mecklenburg has risen only marginally, due to growing families, high levels of international migration, increasing university enrollment, and attraction of young professionals to the area.

Note: In order to make equal comparisons to the smaller areas, the values for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina and the United States in the previous paragraph are also from the American Community Survey 5-Year estimates. While more current 1-year estimates are available for the larger areas, it is important to use the most precise and most comparable 5-year estimates. Due to margins of error, the county-wide calculated sum of NPA values may not align with the county value. [Click here]( http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/estimates.html/) to learn more on the difference between 1-and 5-year estimates.

#### Did you know?
The  city with the  highest median age is The Villages, Florida at 66.4 years and the metro area with the lowest median age is [Provo, UT](http://www.provo.org/) at 23.3 years.

#### Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Population Density</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm13'">Population - Older Adult</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm12'">Population - Youth</a>  
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action |

### About the Data
The median age of residents as estimated in the American Community Survey (ACS). 
 
When a Neighborhood Profile Area (NPA) is comprised of more than one block group, the median age is calculated by linear interpolation from the Age range tables published in the ACS; the margin of error is not calculated for the re-calculated median and will show as blank in the data table. When combining NPAs into larger geographies, the median age is estimated by averaging the median age for each NPA weighted by the total population in each NPA. When combining NPAs into larger geographies, this variable should be used with caution.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates: Table B01002_

### Additional Resources

|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Getting Older, Growing Younger](http://ui.uncc.edu/story/census-2011-charlotte-region-age-change) | Changing demographics in Mecklenburg County and surrounding region.
|[Millennials in Charlotte](http://www.bizjournals.com/charlotte/print-edition/2014/07/11/from-how-they-work-to-where-they-live-millennials.html?page=all)| Thoughts on how Millennials are reshaping Charlotte.

