## Proximity to School-Age Care
Percentage of housing units within &#189;-mile of a licensed school-age program for children ages 5-12

### Why is this important?
School-age child care programs support working families and can provide children with enrichment and academic opportunities that promote healthy development and school success. Proximity to care is only one aspect of accessibility. Other factors that affect access are program cost, availability of financial assistance, program capacity, hours of operation, and geographic barriers such as major highways.

#### How are we doing?
In 2020, approximately 65% of housing units had proximity to school-age care down slightly from 68% in 2015. Interestingly, licensed school-age child care is proximate to more households in 2020 (311,559) than in 2015 (279,481). In 2020 there were 450 licensed school-age childcare centers in Mecklenburg County.
 
#### Did you know?
In addition to licensed school-age child care, children in Kindergarten through 12th grade are served by a wide variety of license-exempt out-of-school time programs in Mecklenburg County, including academic and arts enrichment, summer camps and scouting, and mentoring and leadership development opportunities.

### About the Data
The number of housing units within &#189;-mile of a licensed school-age care program, divided by the total number of housing units. 

Programs that operate seasonally or for fewer than four hours per day are not required to be licensed. License-exempt programs are not included.

_**Source**: Child Care Resources, Inc.; Mecklenburg County Tax Parcels_

### Additional Resources
| Resource | Learn More and Take Action |
|:--- | :--- |
|[Search for Child Care](https://ncchildcare.ncdhhs.gov/childcaresearch)| Find comprehensive information about child care programs in Mecklenburg, Cabarrus, Union, Rowan and Stanly Counties.
|[Choosing Child Care](https://ncchildcare.ncdhhs.gov/Parent/Choosing-Quality-Child-Care)| N.C. Department of Health and Human Services' resource to help choose a child care center.
|[Out-of-School Time Program Locator](https://fun4charlottekids.com/Education-Childcare/Before-After-School-Care/)| Search for out-of-school programs in Mecklenburg County.
|[Child Care Data](http://www.childcareresourcesinc.org/publications-and-multimedia/data-reports/)| Get more data on child care costs, program supply and demand, demographic trends, and star rating analysis.
|[Get Involved](http://charlottenc.gov/Mayor/Youth/MMA/Pages/default.aspx)| Make a difference for children by volunteering with a member of the Mayor's Mentoring Alliance.
