## Home Ownership
Percentage of housing units that are owner-occupied

### Why is this important?
Homeownership can provide multiple benefits to owners and communities. Although a mortgage and home maintenance can be a financial burden, homeownership may also provide households with tax benefits, collateral for financial emergencies, and opportunities for wealth creation. Homeownership is also associated with residential stability, and may catalyze a personal investment in home maintenance, neighborhood improvement and community cohesion. However, renting often provides a more flexible and financially suitable housing option for households, particularly in times of economic recession or housing market decline. The rate of homeownership is closely tied to the share of the housing stock available to own rather than rent, household size and composition, and demographic characteristics such as age, income, race/ethnicity and education. 

#### How are we doing?
In 2019, the homeownership rate in Mecklenburg County was 56.4%, compared to 65.2% in North Carolina and 64% in the United States. Mirroring national trends, homeownership in Mecklenburg County has fallen steadily since a pre-recession high of 67.2% in 2008. The U.S. homeownership rate declined for the twelth consecutive year in 2016, falling to 63.7%, the lowest rate since 1999.

Note: In order to make equal comparisons to the smaller areas, the values for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina and the United States in the previous paragraph are also from the American Community Survey 2015-2019 5-Year estimates. While more current 1-year estimates are available for the larger areas, it is important to use the most precise and most comparable 5-year estimates. [Click here]( http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/estimates.html/) to learn more on the difference between 1-and 5-year estimates.

#### Did you know? 
According to research from the Federal Reserve Bank, the homeownership rate is likely to increase over the long-term as the U.S. population ages. However, with population growth expected to be driven by non-White households, Hispanic and African-American homeownership rates must rise for the overall homeownership rate to rise. The homeownership gap between White and Hispanic or African-American head of households is nearly 30 percentage points.

### About the Data
Number of owner-occupied housing units divided by the total number of occupied housing units.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. American Community Survey <span tabindex="1000" class="meta-definition" data-toggle="popover" data-title="Why 2015-2019 not 2019?" data-content="Data labeled 2015-2019 describe average conditions reported through the American Community Survey (ACS) during the period of January 2015 through December 2019. The Census collects ACS data from only a small sample of households every month. For reliable small-area estimates, the Census compiles five years of ACS data, which are used in the Quality of Life Explorer.">2015-2019</span>, 5-Year Estimates: Table B25003_
 