## Long Commute
Percentage of auto commuters traveling 20 minutes or more to work

### Why is this important?
Lengthy commutes come in multiple varieties, and may be due to either a farther distance traveled or the lack of a direct route, regardless of mode of travel. Long commutes for drivers impact the environment through increased pollution and roadway congestion, as well as on an individual level through the increased risk for stress and less time available for physical and leisure activities that promote health and social well-being. Living in close proximity to work is not always possible or desired. However, commute times can be shortened in a variety of ways including changing departure time to miss a rush hour, working at a different location if possible, or moving closer to a more efficient route to work.

#### How are we doing?
In 2017, 59% of auto commuters that live in Mecklenburg County - regardless of where they work - had a long commute. Mecklenburg had a slightly lower percentage of long commutes than North Carolina (63%) or the nation (59%). According to the 2015 INRIX Traffic Scorecard, drivers in the Charlotte metro area waste an 43 hours each per year, compared to Atlanta, GA at 52 hours wasted and the most congested urban area, Washington, D.C., at 82 hours wasted.

Note: In order to make equal comparisons to the smaller areas, the values for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina and the United States in the previous paragraph are also from the American Community Survey 2013-2017 5-Year estimates. While more current 1-year estimates are available for the larger areas, it is important to use the most precise and most comparable 5-year estimates. [Click here]( http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/estimates.html/) to learn more on the difference between 1-and 5-year estimates.

#### Did you know?
Long commute times in metropolitan areas, as a measure of sprawl and residential segregation, may be associated with decreased economic opportunity, particularly for low-wage workers or workers who do not own vehicles. An analysis of metropolitan areas from the Brookings Institute found that nearly all zero-vehicle households live in neighborhoods with transit service, but those routes only connect them with 40% of jobs within 90 minutes. 

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm10'">Commuters Driving Alone</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm36'">Proximity to Public Transportation</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Population Density</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm75'">Job Density</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm35'">Street Connectivity</a>  

### About the Data
Number of auto commuters (traveling by car, truck, or van) with a commute time of 20 minutes or longer divided by the total number of auto commuters. The data do not include commuters who live outside Mecklenburg County and travel into the county for work. 

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. American Community Survey <span tabindex="1000" class="meta-definition" data-toggle="popover" data-title="Why 2013-2017 not 2017?" data-content="Data labeled 2013-2017 describe average conditions reported through the American Community Survey (ACS) during the period of January 2013 through December 2017. The Census collects ACS data from only a small sample of households every month. For reliable small-area estimates, the Census compiles five years of ACS data, which are used in the Quality of Life Explorer.">2013-2017</span>, 5-Year Estimates: Table B08134_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[NCDOT Travel Information](http://www.ncdot.org/traffictravel/)|View traffic status for the state-maintained roads.
|[Parking Information](http://charlottenc.gov/Transportation/CDOTServices/Pages/ParkIt.aspx)|Details on parking around the city.
|[Driving Costs](http://exchange.aaa.com/automobiles-travel/automobiles/driving-costs/#.VovfbvkrJGo)| View the AAA *Your Driving Costs* data on the cost of owning a car.
|[Urban Mobility Report](http://mobility.tamu.edu/ums/) |Annual rankings of the nation's most congested cities from the Texas Transportation Institute
|[INRIX Traffic Scorecard](http://www.inrix.com/scorecard/)|Interactive analysis of traffic congestion around the world.
|[On The Map](http://onthemap.ces.census.gov/)|Explore the flow between where people live and where people work in Mecklenburg and throughout the U.S..