## Rental Houses
Percentage of detached single-family dwellings that are rentals

### Why is this important?
Rental housing provides a flexible and financially suitable housing option for households, particularly in times of economic recession or housing market decline. A large share of rental houses may reflect the general decline in homeownership rates, the enduring impacts of the foreclosure crisis, or may represent longer patterns of neighborhood disinvestment. Areas with large shares of rental houses may provide opportunities for reinvestment and the creation of affordable homeownership. Percentage of rented properties should be analyzed with other data such as the age and condition of the homes, house size and design, adjacent land uses, and area incomes.

#### Did you know?
In Mecklenburg County from 2015 to 2020, the percentage of detached single-family dwellings that are rentals remained virtually unchanged at 21%. Interestingly, nationally single-family properties account for a large portion of the growth in rentals over the last decade. 

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm29'">Home Ownership</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm7'">Housing Age</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm40'">Rental Costs</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm31'">Residential Occupancy</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm69'">Residential Foreclosures</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Household Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm32'">Nuisance Violations</a>  

### About the Data
The number of detached, single-family rental houses divided by the total number of detached, single-family houses. 

Houses are considered rentals if the owner mailing address in the tax records does not match the property address. Homeowners who utilize a P.O. Box or other business address for tax records may be misrepresented with this methodology. Areas with fewer than 5 single-family units are suppressed and represented as N/A. The Town of Davidson is suppressed due to the high percentage of properties utilizing a P.O. Box. 

_**Source**: Mecklenburg County Tax Parcels_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Charlotte Explorer](https://explore.charlottenc.gov/)| Learn about Charlotte, its operations and its changing landscape.
|[Polaris 3G](https://polaris3g.mecklenburgcountync.gov//)| Mecklenburg County property ownership and land records system.
|[America's Rental Housing](https://www.jchs.harvard.edu/research-areas/rental-housing) |Research on the evolving rental housing market, including single-family rental homes.
|[Charlotte Mecklenburg Housing Partnership](https://www.dreamkeypartners.org/)|Expanding affordable housing within stable neighborhoods for low- and moderate-income families in the City of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County. 
|[Neighborhood Association Toolkit](http://charlottenc.gov/HNS/Code/HealthSanitation/Pages/Toolkits.aspx) |Be proactive in reducing the likelihood of receiving nuisance violations in your neighborhood with this toolkit.