## Test Proficiency - Elementary School
Percentage of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 3-5 proficient in End of Grade testing

### Why is this important?
Elementary test scores, particularly third grade reading proficiency, are a critical indicator of future academic success. Test scores can assist education administrators, policy-makers, businesses, residents, and community organizations in tracking academic performance and developing strategies to increase academic proficiency. Since these data are based on where students live, regardless of what school they attend, they may help identify areas where community-based services and resources are needed to support student success. Research has identified a number of factors that contribute to test score proficiency, including early childhood experiences, school attendance, summer learning opportunities, family support, and high-quality teaching in school, home, and community settings. 

As a measure of student progress, *growth* in test scores is just as important as proficiency. Growth and proficiency should be evaluated together to better understand student and school success.

#### How are we doing?
Countywide, approximately 35.1% of students in grades 3-5 were proficient in both reading and math tests. Proficiency rates are expected to rise as teachers and students adjust to the new content standards and expectations, as has happened in other states implementing new standards.

Changes in proficiency rates can be attributed in part to the Covid-19 pandemic, but also to changes in the test itself. Math EOG tests were updated for 2019, and reading was updated for 2021.  

#### Did you know?
Research from the Annie E. Casey Foundation showed that 16% of students who are not reading proficiently by the conclusion of third grade failed to graduate from high school on time - a rate four times greater than that for proficient readers.

<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm63'">Test Proficiency - Middle School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm64'">Test Proficiency - High School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm20'">Education Level - Bachelor's Degree</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm39'">Education Level - High School Diploma</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Household Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm38'">Employment Rate</a>  
    
### About the Data
Number of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 3-5 achieving a proficient score (Level III,IV or V) on both reading and math end of grade tests divided by the total number of CMS students in grades 3-5 taking both reading and math end of grade tests. 

Data are based on the home location of the student, regardless of which school they attend. Areas with fewer than 5 students are suppressed and represented as N/A. Students attending charter schools, private schools, or home schools are not included in CMS data.  

Note: The year displayed is the year in which the school year ended (e.g. "2019" reflects information from the 2018-2019 school year).

Caution should be used when comparing proficiency rates across time. The Math EOG was updated in 2018/2019 and the reading EOG was updated in 2020/21–these scores should not be compared to previous years.  

_**Source**: Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Mayor's Mentoring Alliance](http://charlottenc.gov/Mayor/Youth/MMA/Pages/default.aspx)| Connecting mentors with young mentees to make a positive impact on Charlotte.
|[North Carolina End-of-Grade Tests](http://www.ncpublicschools.org/accountability/testing/eog/)| See all of the details on required End-of-Grade tests.
|[National Center for Education Statistics](http://nces.ed.gov/) |Education data from across the nation including test proficiency by gender, race/ethnicity, income and state.
|[N.C. School Report Cards](https://ncreports.ondemand.sas.com/src/?county=Mecklenburg)| Explore the report card for any Charlotte-Mecklenburg School.