## Test Proficiency - High School
Percentage of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 9-12 proficient in End-of-Course testing

### Why is this important?
Test scores can assist education administrators, policy-makers, businesses, residents, and community organizations in tracking academic performance and developing strategies to increase academic proficiency. Since these data are based on where students live, regardless of what school they attend, they may help identify areas where community-based services and resources are needed to support student success. Research has identified a number of factors that contribute to test score proficiency, including early childhood experiences, school attendance, summer learning opportunities, family support, and high-quality teaching in school, home, and community settings.

As a measure of student progress, *growth* in test scores is just as important as proficiency. Growth and proficiency should be evaluated together to better understand student and school success.

#### How are we doing?
Countywide, approximately 47.5% of students in grades 9-12 were proficient in both reading and math tests. Proficiency rates are expected to rise as teachers and students adjust to the new content standards and expectations, as has happened in other states implementing new standards.  

#### Did you know?
Course grades, standardized test scores, and exposure to college-level coursework are all predictive of high school student success. However, a students' high school GPA is 'consistently considered' the best predictor of not only freshman grades in college, but of four-year college outcomes as well.
 
### About the Data
Number of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) students in grades 9-12 achieving a proficient score (Level III,IV or V) on two or more end of course tests divided by the total number of CMS students in grades 9-12 with valid scores on two or more end of course tests.

Students enrolled in Math I, Biology, and English II are required to take the North Carolina end of course tests. Data are based on the home location of the student, regardless of which school they attend. Areas with fewer than 5 students are suppressed and represented as N/A. Students attending charter schools, private schools, or home schools are not included in CMS data.  

Note: The year displayed is the year in which the school year ended (e.g. "2019" reflects information from the 2018-2019 school year).


_**Source**: Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action |
|:--- | :--- |
|[Mayor's Mentoring Alliance](http://charlottenc.gov/Mayor/Youth/MMA/Pages/default.aspx)| Connecting mentors with young mentees to make a positive impact on Charlotte.
|[North Carolina End-of-Grade Tests](http://www.ncpublicschools.org/accountability/testing/eog/)| See all of the details on required End-of-Grade tests.
|[National Center for Education Statistics](http://nces.ed.gov/) |Education data from across the nation including test proficiency by gender, race/ethnicity, income and state.
|[N.C. School Report Cards](https://ncreports.ondemand.sas.com/src/?county=Mecklenbur)| Explore the report card for any Charlotte-Mecklenburg School.

