## Home Sales Price
Average sales price of homes  

### Why is this important?
Housing continues to be the largest expense for most residents, and can be a household's greatest asset or greatest liability. Home sales prices rise and fall with a number of factors, including the economy, the housing market, the age of the housing stock, the needs of residents, and the demand for particular locations. This variable represents the sales price of homes as a single unit, and does not take into account the age, size, condition or amenities of the houses. Having a diverse housing stock available for purchase at a variety of price points is necessary to meet the needs and preferences of all residents. 

#### How are we doing?
According to the Charlotte Regional Realtor Association, the median home price in Mecklenburg County was $218,500 in 2016, up 7% from the previous year. 

#### Did you know? 
The local housing market is hovering above its August 2007 peak as measured by the Case-Shiller Index, which measures how the sales price of the same single-family detached residences change over time. The November 2016 value for the Charlotte metropolitan region was 142.82, compared to 133.9 in August 2007. 

### About the Data
Sum of sales values for single family dwellings, condominiums, and townhomes divided by the number of sales of single family dwellings, condominiums, and townhomes. Data are cumulative for the previous two fiscal years.

_**Source**: Mecklenburg County Register of Deeds_

