## Energy Consumption - Natural Gas
Average monthly household natural gas consumption

### Why is this important?
Residential use accounts for approximately 20% of all energy consumption in the United States. Reducing natural gas consumption saves money for households and reduces the demand for energy production, which can reduce pollution and protect natural resources. Not all households have natural gas connections and those that do generally use it for space heating, hot water and cooking. Natural gas consumption is measured in therms, or the equivalent of approximately 29.3 kilowatt-hours of electricity consumption. 

Combining the usage of natural gas and electricity gives an overall view of energy consumption. Strategies to reduce household energy use include sealing and insulating walls, windows, doors and floors, using a programmable thermostat, using energy efficient appliances, equipment, light bulbs and fixtures, switching to alternate heating and cooling strategies such as fresh air and ground source heat, and regular cleaning of filters, registers and vents. 

#### How are we doing?
**Note**: There is no update available for this dataset at this time. This variable is important to measuring the Quality of Life, therefore the older data will remain accessible until a reliable source becomes available. 

Total U.S. energy consumption in homes has remained relatively stable for many years as increased energy efficiency has offset the increase in the number and average size of housing units. Mecklenburg County's average monthly natural gas consumption per household was 51 therms in 2013. Energy consumption rates are strongly influenced by climate, and vary considerably across regions.

Note: Due to its unique nature, this variable, while not up-to-date, remains part of the report while we identify ways to update and enhance the data. 

#### Did you know?
According to the national Residential Energy Consumption Survey, on average, residents living in newer homes built from 2000 to 2009 used 19% more total energy than residents living in homes constructed in the 1980s.

### About the Data
Total annual natural gas consumption in therms divided by twelve, divided by the number of housing units with natural gas service. Data was received at the block group level and aggregated to the Neighborhood Profile Area (NPA) geography. Areas with fewer than five residential customers are suppressed and shown as N/A. There are no data for the Town of Davidson as it is serviced by PSNC Energy rather than Piedmont Natural Gas. 

_**Source**: Piedmont Natural Gas_

### Additional Resources
|Take Action |     |
|:- |:- |
|[Save Money and Energy](https://gasadvantage.piedmontng.com/#save)| Find out about Piedmont Natural Gas programs to save money and energy.
|[Neighborhood Matching Grants](https://www.charlottenc.gov/Streets-and-Neighborhoods/Get-Involved/Neighborhood-Matching-Grants) |Curb energy, protect natural environments, and strengthen community with grants for neighborhood-wide energy initiatives in City of Charlotte neighborhoods.
|[ENERGY STAR Information](http://www.energystar.gov/index.cfm?c=home_improvement.hm_improvement_index) |Guide to choosing an energy-efficient appliance.

|Learn More |     |
|:- |:- |
|[Residential Energy Consumption Survey](http://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/index.cfm) |National data and analysis of trends in residential energy use
|[Household Carbon Footprint](http://coolclimate.berkeley.edu/carboncalculator) |Carbon footprint calculator by zip code, household size and income, and maps comparing local averages across the nation.
