## Housing Assistance – Development-Based
Percentage of housing units with development-based rental assistance

### Why is this important?
Identifying the location of assisted units allows housing providers to develop implementation plans and residents to understand the types of housing choices that are present in their community. Concentrating assisted-housing for low and very low-income Americans in dense, urban areas is not an effective use of scarce affordable housing resources (USHUD). Mixed-income development has become a popular housing solution by creating diverse communities and decentralizing poverty.

#### How are we doing?
The number of housing units with development-based rental assistance has increased from 10,031 units in 2013 to 12,386 in 2022.  According to the National Low Income Housing Coalition's [Gap Report](https://reports.nlihc.org/gap/2019/nc), North Carolina has 347,275 extremely low-income renter households, but only 156,365 afordable and available rental units. Framed another way, there are only 43 available rentals for every 100 extremely low-income renter households. The Charlotte Metropolitan Statistical Area fares slightly worse having only 38 available rentals for every 100 extremely low-income renter households.

### About the Data
The number of housing units with development-based rental assistance divided by the total number of housing units.

Development-based rental assistance includes properties with Low-Income Housing Tax Credits, public housing developments of InLivian (formerly the Charlotte Housing Authority), developments of DreamKey Partners (formerly the Charlotte Mecklenburg Housing Partnership), developments with funding from the Charlotte Housing Trust Fund, developments with active Section 202 Direct Loans for housing for the elderly or handicapped, units with active Project-Based Rental Assistance Section 8 Contracts through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and units with active HOME Rental Assistance subsidies through HUD.

Note: Each assisted housing unit is counted only once, even when multiple types of housing assistance are tied to the unit. The data do not include HUD Insured loans with affordability restrictions (Federal Housing Administration) or homeownership assistance.

_**Source**: InLivian; DreamKey Partners; City of Charlotte Neighborhood & Business Services; National Housing Preservation Database; North Carolina Housing Finance Agency; U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Multifamily Properties Database_


### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action |
|:--- | :--- |
|[InLivian](https://www.inlivian.com/)| Leveraging resources to develop high quality mixed income communities to promote economic integration.
|[DreamKey Partners](https://dreamkeypartners.org/)| Providing a comprehensive range of affordable housing services focused on revitalization, education, and development.
|[City of Charlotte Housing Programs](http://charlottenc.gov/HNS/Housing/Pages/default.aspx)| View performance and evaluation reports for the City's housing services.
|[City of Charlotte's Housing Strategy](http://charlottenc.gov/HNS/Housing/Strategy/Pages/default.aspx)| Read about the City of Charlotte's guide for the financing and/or development of new affordable housing projects.
|[Charlotte Explorer](https://explore.charlottenc.gov/)| Learn about Charlotte, its operations and its changing landscape.
