## Residential Demolitions
Concentration of residential demolitions 

### Why is this important?
Residential demolitions are an indicator of changes in housing stock. Demolitions can occur due to a structure not meeting minimum housing requirements, due to a change in property use, or due to a new owner intending on rebuilding a newer home.

#### How are we doing?
There were 265 residential demolitions in 2011 and 534 in 2020, an increase of 41.8%. The overall trend in the number of demolitions is increasing, however, the peak was in 2017 with 757 demolitions.

#### Did you know?
Commercial buildings often attract the most attention, but 70% of all buildings demolished in Mecklenburg County are homes. Residential demolition is driven by Charlotte’s growing demand for housing. In booming, close-in neighborhoods such as NoDa or South End, high land values and demand for high-density projects are driving much of the redevelopment.

According to the UNC Charlotte Urban Institute, about one third of the 15,000 recorded demolitions since 1999 could be matched to new construction permits at the same address: 65% of the time, single family homes are constructed on the same site, while 32% of the time, the land is used for townhomes, duplexes or other higher density residential. Only 3% of parcels are converted to commercial use.

### About the Data
Residential demolitions per 1,000 single-family units for the fiscal year.

Multiple demolitions on one parcel are counted as one. Single family housing units includes single-family detached homes as well as duplexes, triplexes, and mobile homes. Duplexes and triplexes are counted as 2 and 3 units, respectively.

_**Source**: Mecklenburg County Code Enforcement 

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Mecklenburg County Tax Information](https://tax.mecknc.gov/)| Find information on taxes in Mecklenburg County and look up real estate.
|[UNC Charlotte Urban Institute](https://ui.charlotte.edu/story/mapping-charlotte%E2%80%99s-lost-buildings-demolitions-rise-again#:~:text=In%202019%2C%20over%201%2C000%20structures,new%20construction%20have%20remained%20strong.)| Mapping Charlotte's Lost Buildings:  Demolitions are on the Rise Again.
|[Housing Services](https://www.charlottenc.gov/Streets-and-Neighborhoods/Housing)| See the many offerings the city has for housing, including home-buying incentives and the Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction Program.
|[Charlotte Explorer](https://explore.charlottenc.gov/)| Learn about Charlotte, its operations, and its changing landscape.

